>> Brian Holt: Intermediate React
v6 as taught for Frontend Masters.
So I am very exited to be
here today we're gonna talk,
it's kind of a continuation on
the complete intro to React v9.
That kind of taught you all like the core
fundamental clientside React kind of
components.
And then this is kinda going
into the more frontier,
these are useful sometimes, but
not all the time kinda things, right?
So first of all, if you're gonna follow
along with me today, I invite you to.
You can just go to
i6.holt.courses like that.
And that'll take you to
intermediate-react-v.holt.courses.
You should see this, kinda black and
green website, looks like this.
>> Brian Holt: So, just to kinda give
you a little lay of the land of how this
website works, if I click into one of
these lessons, you'll see that it says
RSCs without a framework and
intro to react server components.
The first part is the name of the section,
and
the second part the name of the lesson.
So if you pop into the middle of a course,
you can kind of see where I am, okay.
But beyond that, let's just hop in,
go through the introduction, and
then I'll kinda talk a little bit more
about what we're gonna learn in the course
I'm excited.
So I'm just gonna click into intro here.
Just to be super clear, you do not
have to take v5 of this course to take
v6 this is the sixth revision of it,
not the sixth in a series, right?
I just say that because I
get asked it frequently, so
I just want to clear that up.
However, you do need to
take Intro to React v9,
these are kind of companion courses, this
is a continuation of what you learned.
You can also come here just having known
React, it's not like anything in there is
anything outside of just
learning React itself.
But I did my best to make that kind of a
continuum that there's no overlap between
the two courses, you can kinda take
them individually from each other.
This is a complete rewrite
of my intermediate course,
if you have taken the previous
versions of Intermediate React,
this is totally different
from those courses.
Intermediate React used to focus
more on ecosystem kinda stuff, and
I just was looking through
the Frontend Masters catalog.
And a lot of that ecosystem stuff
is covered well by other teachers.
There's one on Tailwind,
there's one on Typescript and React, and
those are all awesome courses.
So I saw is kind of being redundant.
And then I also saw that kind of not
covering some of these more newer
features like React server components and
some of the transition and
stuff like that as well.
So all that to say, v5 still works,
it actually is going through all of
the curriculum there and it all still
applies, none of it's out of date.
So v5 of this actually
still works really well.
If you wanna learn about Redux or
Typescript from me,
it's all in v5 of that.
So feel free, I left a little link
there if you wanna check it out.
Also, just the learning path
here on Frontend Masters.
You can see here they've done
a really good job curating, do this,
then this, then this, then this,
also a special note on Scott.
He and I coordinated so
that intro to next and
intermediate react didn't
have a lot of overlap, right?
So he's focused more on the next concepts,
I'm more focused on the React concepts.
Despite the fact that you will write
a little bit of next in this course
by necessity that certain features
of react now require next to work.
So this course can kinda logically
be divided into two halves.
The first part basically
through this part with next.js,
it's all server side react,
right, and various flavors of it.
We'll go over through the client
side react, static site generation,
server side rendering, which are like,
let's call them the not new.
I'm not gonna call them old,
cuz I don't feel like they're old.
I can't call them old without calling
myself old, I'll put it that way.
So I'm not gonna do that.
These are the, I was gonna say legacy,
no, I don't like that word either.
So there's just the ways that have
existed of writing React previously.
And then RSCs,
which is React Server Components
is kinda the new ways of doing it.
We're gonna write RSCs
without a framework and
then we're gonna write
the RSCs with next.js.
You gonna see basically what an RSC is,
how it is created, what it does for
you and what a pain in the back is
to write it without a frame work.
And then am gonna show you the easy
mode of writing it, right?
So that's the first half the course,
the second half the course is percieved
an actual perfomance of React.
So basically how to make your
app both be performant and
also how to make it feel performant,
which can be kind of different things.
And that'll be the second
half of this course and
then I will let you go to go
create really cool stuff.
Until then, you are stuck here.
Okay, so who is this course for?
I put this in here, but
hopefully it's for you, I try and
make this generally accessible to people.
Is anyone looking to get some
more experience into React?
Even beyond just the things
I'm working here,
this is just good practice
of writing a lot of React.
Probably shouldn't be
referred React course,
probably shouldn't be your
first Javascript course and
definitely shouldn't be your
first programming course.
So if you are here and that applies
to you, there are other courses on
Frontend Masters that will
work really well for you.
We are gonna do some note in here and
even more note than I previously put in my
React courses just by necessity that
this is working with server components.
I do try and focus on the React portion
of it, not the node portion of it.
So you're probably okay here, if you're
this is your first exposure to Node,
but that might be hard.
Also, you should just take a Node course,
because that would be helpful.
I've been writing react for a long time,
it is now been over ten years,
which is wild to say out loud
that I have been writing react.
It's kind of been career defining for
me and I still use it.
Ten years later, who knew that someone was
still using a Javascript framework and
not have migrated on to a different one?
But here we are.
I've written React a large
variety of companies.
I've shipped it at basically every company
I've worked at in some capacity except
probably Linkedin, and that wasn't for
lack of trying, did try to ship it there,
they just wouldn't let me.
So it's just been my go-to tool it's,
I like the model of how it
encapsulates components and
then the composability of components
it's just, it's always worked for me.
And they taken care over the years
to not break it too, too much.
With React 19,
the latest version being the one that
adds a lot of kind of New tools.
Let's go with new complexity and
we'll get into Brian's rants
as we go on as I want to do.
They pay me for it, and they keep paying
me to do it, so I will keep doing it.
A little bit more about me, I work at
NEON, it's pretty cool Postgres company.
[INAUDIBLE] serverless Postgres, I'm in
charge of all sorts of developer services,
developer tools just kind of like trying
to make working with Postgres fun.
So I've been doing that for a while.
Previous to that, I worked as
a JavaScript and a Node js engineer for
over ten years at snowflake,
Microsoft, LinkedIn, Netflix, Reddit.
I'm sure I'm forgetting some but
some of those things in there,
I've been everything from a VP of
product to Dev Rel to staff engineer,
tech lead to junior engineer.
I've been all those job titles.
And I currently, I just moved to
Sacramento, I lived in Seattle for
the past six years, but
I moved about a month ago.
Yeah, I enjoy snowboarding,
beers, scotch, cycling and
most recently, playing Marvel
rivals poorly, quite poorly.
If we're being truly
honest with ourselves,
feel free to catch up with me on
the socials, I left my links here.
I just yeah, I say this every single time,
but I am awful at responding to DMS,
so just be aware of that I
don't check them very often.
If you have an issue with this course or
you find something like that,
usually people go to DMs to try and
get that to me.
I'm gonna invite you to file
an issue on the repo for this,
just because if you have an issue,
somebody else is gonna have an issue.
And then the Frontend Master staff does
a really good job of helping me keep this
up-to-date as well, so
that helps a lot ups as well.
So how this works?
The first portion of this,
we're gonna write everything from scratch,
100% just coded from zero.
The second half of this course,
didn't sound like fun to
reset up vite continually.
So I just kind of basically made you like
little starter projects that basically
have all the Node APIs that
this isn't a Node course.
And the vite build process all set up for
you.
Again, if you wanna know more about how to
set up those processes, it's in the intro.
So I have that up in here, you'll see
that I have these starter repos and
these should be empty, right?
So if you go to the perf one,
it should like start, but
the initial component is gonna be
something super simple like blah, right?
It doesn't have anything more than just
enough to get the app running itself.
So that is the starter ones,
the completed ones.
You can see here there's more in here
because I have the full Next.js project
finished, the full no
framework project finished.
The entire point of this class learning.
So if you are struggling with something,
or if you wanna see how I did it versus
you did it, by all means that
that is why this is here.
I am not your mother,
[LAUGH] this is not homework, right?
We're just joining together
to kinda learn this stuff, so
please do the thing that
helps you learn the most.
If you need to deprive yourself of looking
at the completed thing, then do that.
If you need to look at it to compare
notes, please do that, right?
That is the repo for the projects, I would
say go ahead at this point, go ahead and
clone it locally,
that's what I would invite you to do.
You're gonna have to do it eventually.
So yeah,
there was a couple other things in here.
So I have a little database for
some of the Node js samples.
That's here in nodes.db,
and then the globals.css,
I think, is for the next project, and
I think the style.css is for
all of the performance projects.